=head1 NAME

ALPM::PacmanConf - pacman.conf config file parsing class

=head1 SYNOPSIS

	use ALPM::PacmanConf;
	use ALPM;
	
	my $conf = ALPM::PacmanConf->new('/etc/pacman.conf');
	my $alpm = ALPM->new('/', '/var/db');
	$conf->parse_options($alpm);
	
	# Try again with custom fields:
	my $value;
	my %fields = ('CustomField' => sub { $value = shift });
	$conf->custom_fields(%fields);
	$conf->parse_options($alpm);

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is used to parse pacman.conf which are used by ArchLinux's pacman
for config files.  The configuration fields are used to set ALPM options.  You
probably don't need to use this module directly but you can as you wish.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR

=head2 new

 $OBJ = ALPM::LoadConfig->new('cfields' => \%FIELDS_REF? );

=over 4

=item B<Parameters>

=over 4

=item C<\%FIELDS_REF> B<(Hash Reference) (Optional)>

Keys are field names from the C</etc/pacman.conf> configuration file.
Values are code references.  When a field is found inside the
configuration file with the I<exact same> name, then the code
reference is called, passed the value of the entry as the only
argument.

=back

=head1 METHODS

=head2 load_config

 undef = $OBJ->load_config( $CFG_FILE_PATH )

This method will read a configuration file, setting ALPM options as it
goes.

=over 4

=item B<Parameters>

=over 4

=item C<$CFG_FILE_PATH>

The path to the configuration file to read.

=back

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 by Justin Davis

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.
