=head1 NAME

ALPM::Package - ALPM package class.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  use ALPM qw( /etc/pacman.conf );
  my $perlpkg = ALPM->localdb->find('perl');

  # TMTOWTDI!

  my $name = $perlpkg->name();
  print "$name rocks!\n";

  my %attrs = $perlpkg->attribs();
  print "$attrs{name} rocks!\n";

  my $attrs_ref = $perlpkg->attribs_ref();
  print "attrs_ref->{name} rocks!\n";

  # Dependencies are given as arrayrefs of hashrefs (AoH):
  print "$name depends on:\n";
  for my $dep ( @{ $perlpkg->depends() } ) {
      my @words = @{$dep}{'name', 'mod', 'ver'};
      print "  @words\n";
  }

  # Others lists are arrayrefs of scalars:
  print "$name owns files:\n";
  print "  $_\n" foreach ( @{ $perlpkg->files } );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This class is a wrapper for all of the C<alpm_pkg_...> C library functions
of libalpm.  You retrieve the package from the database and you can then
access its attributes.  Attributes are like L<ALPM>'s options.  There are
many different ways to access them.  You cannot modify a package.

=head1 ATTRIBUTES

There are three basic ways to access an attribute.  You can use the
accessor method that is specific to an attribute, you can use the
C<attr> method, or you can use the C<attribs> method.

=head2 Attribute Accessors

The accessors are named I<(almost)> exactly the same as the
C<alpm_pkg_get...> functions.  They are easy to use if you only want a
few attributes.

I have removed the get_ prefix on the accessors.  This is because you
can't really I<set> anything so you should know it's a get anyways.

=over

=item * filename

=item * name

=item * version

=item * desc

=item * url

=item * builddate

=item * installdate

=item * packager

=item * md5sum

=item * arch

=item * size

=item * isize

=item * reason

=item * licenses

=item * groups

=item * depends

=item * optdepends

=item * conflicts

=item * provides

=item * deltas

=item * replaces

=item * files

=item * backup

=item * has_scriptlet

=item * download_size

=item * changelog

=item * requiredby

=back

Attributes with plural names return an arrayref of strings.

=head3 Dependency Lists

depends is different because it returns an arrayref of hashrefs
(an AoH).  The hash has the following key-value pairs:

  |---------+----------------------------------------|
  | Key     | Value                                  |
  |---------+----------------------------------------|
  | name    | Package name of the dependency         |
  | version | The version to compare the real one to |
  | mod     | The modifier of the dependency         |
  |         | ('==', '>=', '<=', '<', or '>')        |
  |---------+----------------------------------------|

=head2 PERLISH METHODS

There are also more ways to get attributes.  C<attribs> is useful if
you want to get all attributes at once in a hash, or many attributes
at once into a list or variables.

=head2 attribs

  Usage   : my %attribs = $pkg->attribs();
            my ($name, $desc) = $pkg->attribs('name', 'desc');
  Params  : If you specify attribute names, their values are returned as
            a list.  Otherwise, returns a hash of all attributes.
  Returns : Either a hash or a list.

=head2 attribs_ref

  This is the same as attribs, but it returns a hashref or
  arrayref instead.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ALPM>, L<ALPM::DB>

=head1 AUTHOR

Justin Davis, C<< <juster at cpan dot org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright (C) 2011 by Justin Davis

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the same terms as Perl itself, either Perl version 5.10.0 or,
at your option, any later version of Perl 5 you may have available.

=cut
